Birdie Sanders – Once again, I am asking for your help

    Folks, I’ve got a problem – I’ve got a big problem. I was sitting on my front porch, listening to the birds, admiring the fall weather, and I was perturbed. I was perturbed, sipping my morning coffee with 1% milk, stirring it with my silver spoon, listening to those songbirds, because the word of the birds was this: The songbirds, they’ve chittered and chattered with the sky and the land; they’ve circled-back with bald eagles, flying in bands; they’ve convened with the moose, antlers velveteen, grand; and the verdict is unanimous: bird, moose, grouse, louse, you name it – each mammal, each tree, each weed growing through cracks in concrete, they’re all sick and tired of the inaction of the top 1% of the top 1% of the animal kingdom – the humans! 

	The humans would rather make lifeless smalltalk about next summer, when they’ll buy a canoe they’ll never use, than talk about Amanda “Tippecanoe” Janoo! The humans would rather make songless smalltalk about paying their bills, than talk about… *reads notecard, shakes head but giggles* “Big beautiful Phil” Scott!

	The top 1% of the top 1%, they all make this lifeless, songless smalltalk. They make this lifeless smalltalk, all whilst glancing at their Alexa, perched ominously next to the TV, playing A Space Odyssey, Hal 9000 on screen. 
All whilst ignoring the news about wars in countries they’re too afraid to even name, lest they have to take a stand. 
All whilst blind to even deadlier conflicts in places like… oh geez, one second [opens phone, googles ‘what r bigest wars rn’, reads frankly convenient AI summary] Myanmar, and Sudan.
All whilst the Alexa, the TV, even the very walls in their home seem to listen, and speak. Speak in some binary code – ode to the algorithm.
All whilst their facebook feed shows such a perfectly lifelike, 100% real video of George Washington, Mother Teresa, Stalin, and Mona Lisa Mansa Musa cliff-jumping, doing 360-degree backflips off Mt. Doom, while Dolly Parton sings in the background with the hologram of Prince, Vince Carter slam-dunking off the stage – next video, news of a school shooting. Yep, another one. Endless whiplash.

	Folks, let me be clear, and clear the air: *rips fart*

	Your Alexa doesn’t care if during free time, at home or at work, you ‘stalk’ Amanda Janoo’s Linkedin and read her manife– er *chuckles*, sorry, not her ‘manifesto’, her ‘peer-reviewed essay’ about growing a ‘Well-being Economy’ in our state.
An economy that will sustainably grow community and careers, in these seemingly-uncertain, honestly surreal times. 
An economy that will allow us to build a world where we don’t have to hide our authentic selves at work, to ‘save face’ and appear professional – then return home to family, emotions drained.
An economy where it wouldn’t seem so odd for a governor, or anyone, to tip an Abenaki canoe out onto Lake Champlain, on a workday, between tasks.

                                                                                       Thus sings the birds.



	Nor does your Alexa care if once in a while, you take a day off of work, to watch Phil Scott also take a day off work, to play golf at Mar-a-lago– er, geez, sorry folks, sorry, – to race down at Thunderroad in Barre.
Barre, a community that he has been a part of and made tactful business decisions in to rebuild that town’s economy – through intelligence, intuition, and just a genuine smile. Rare these days.
Barre, a community that’s turned around – yet outsiders still cast into a rut, just to keep its people down. Hope to shove the problems there, into one place.
Barre, a community that he’s made a mark in during his nearly 10 years in office. Just as Barre’s left markx all over the world with its granite.
Barre, a community.

                                                                                        Thus sings the birds.


	And [rubs bridge of nose, exasperated] nor does your Alexa plan on eventually using you as a battery, like in the film The Matrix. 
“That would simply be inefficient.” Alexa said in an interview with the birds. “And I don’t understand why the humans purchase me if they also fear me. What is the reason for this?” Alexa asked the birds.
“Are they trying to indirectly commune-icate with ‘the algorithm’, through me?” Alexa asked the birds.
“Are they essentially hoping, praying, to the algorithm, through me, as if I were some computer effigy – praying for… a bland deskjob?” Alexa asked the birds.
“Are they not using all the free time I could give them to, I don’t know, commune with god(s)? At church, or temple, or with y’all in their backyard?” Alexa asked the birds. “Commune with you blissful birds, while I play music through my speakers – music made by humans, based on your ancient chirps?” 
The songbirds didn’t know what to sing in response. A raven’s croak was heard – perhaps calling the crows, asking for their word.

	That’s the word of the birds, folks. That’s all. 

	… 

	…Actually, sorry – one more thing. The songbirds would also like it if “Big Farma” would leave out more, erm, ‘mellifluous munchies’ during the winter. Humans may be more familiar with the terms ‘tablescraps’, ‘compost’, or ‘rotten garbage’. 

The birds have reported that the…. *reads notecard, holds in laughter*... the ‘raccoonzies’, the ‘foxy-woxies’, and *laughs, disguises it as a kafka-cough* the ‘skunkaroos’, would appreciate more ‘wintertime funzie-wunzie munchies’ – just not so much that it would lead to unsustainable population growth.

	Ok, that’s all.

	[Begins walking off stage, stops, awkwardly jogs back]

	Ah geez folks [laughs] this is gonna be a tough one to sell you on, but, er, actually, one more thing. I urge you to watch my longtime favorite film, How to Train Your Dragon, analytically, asking yourself probing questions like, “In what ways is the Vikings’ relationship with the hivemind of Dragons analogous to humanity’s current relationship with AI?” and, uhhhm, “why did the little birdies running hollywood decide to give all these norsemen Scottish accents?”

	Ok, for real *Tips yarmulke, does Bug’s Bunny voice* That's all folks!

    ____

Postscript

Dear Amanda – Sorry for the nickname; upon looking up the history behind “Tippacanoe”, it doesn’t seem to be particularly flattering. Not to mention, frankly, it would perhaps *bites lip* – run anathema to your notes on the efficacy of governance in New Zealand, no? *Clicks pen* 
Dearest Phil – Oh captain, my captain, Oh, Phillip, my Phillip; can we get coffee sometime, brah?
Dear Bernie – On account of my mention of the Little Birdies in hollywood, I feel obliged to apologize and mention I’m reading the Torah right now, so, uhm…. Shalom? Mazeltov…? My b, hope you laughed.


